docs(Grid): add kb for filterrow bool customization (#2165)
telerik/blazor-docs: knowledge-base/grid-filterrow-bool-customization.md

---

> title: Change the Boolean Filtering Options in a FilterRow Dropdown List

Reviewer: "Drop down" are normally two separate words. You can also remove "List", and consider "Filter Row", depending on what words customers used in their tickets.

description: Learn how to customize the default text in a Grid FilterRow dropdown list, including changing "is true" and "is false" to "Yes" and "No," modifying the FilterRow dropdown list display names, and filtering the boolean column values by null for a more user-friendly and tailored filtering experience.
type: how-to
page_title: How to Change the Boolean Filtering Options in a FilterRow Dropdown List

> slug: grid-filterrow-bool-customization

Reviewer: Should include `kb` after the component name:

```suggestion
slug: grid-kb-filterrow-bool-customization
```

ticketid: 1575619, 1603347, 1646267, 1654640
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

<table>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>Product</td>
            <td>Grid for Blazor</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## Description

This KB article answers the following questions:

> * How to change default text `is true` and `is false` in `Grid FilterRow` dropdown list?

Reviewer: `Grid FilterRow` is not code.

* How to customize the `FilterRow` values?
* How to change the default display names in `FilterRow` dropdown list?
* How to filter a boolean `Grid` column values by `null`?
* How to change the default values in FilterRow dropdown list to "**Yes**" and "**No**"?

## Solution

* Define a [Filter Row Template]({%slug grid-templates-filter%}#filter-row-template).
* Create a `DropDownList` that includes the custom display values.

> * Create a `Button` that will replicate the `FilterRow` clear button.

Reviewer: We have a separate related KB article about this, which you can link: https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/knowledge-base/grid-filter-operator-dropdown

> * Implement a method for manually filtering the `Grid` based on the dropdown list selection.

Reviewer: Use simpler grammar. `Grid` is not code. Use "DropDownLIst" or drop down.

```suggestion
* Implement a method that manually filters the Grid based on the DropDownList selection.
```

                    <DropDownListSettings>
                        <DropDownButtonPopupSettings Height="auto" />
                    </DropDownListSettings>
                </TelerikDropDownList>

                <!-- Button to clear the filter -->
                <TelerikButton ButtonType="ButtonType.Button"
                               Class="k-clear-button-visible ml-2"
                               Icon="@SvgIcon.FilterClear"
                               Enabled="@(DropDownListValue != "All")"
                               OnClick="@(async () =>
                                          {
                                              await context.ClearFilterAsync();
                                              DropDownListValue = "All";
                                          })">
                </TelerikButton>
            </FilterCellTemplate>
        </GridColumn>
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
    private List<Employee> GridData { get; set; } = new();

    // Custom options for the dropdown filter
    private List<string> FilterOptions { get; set; } = new() { "All", "Yes", "No", "No Info" };

    // Selected value in the dropdown filter

>     private string DropDownListValue { get; set; } = "All";

Reviewer: Using hard-coded strings in the app's business logic is not a very good practice. Imagine that the customer is working on localized app, which serves different languages.

    // Method to apply the filter based on the selected value in the dropdown
    private async Task ApplyFilter(string newValue, FilterCellTemplateContext context)
    {
        DropDownListValue = newValue;

        var filter = context.FilterDescriptor.FilterDescriptors[0] as FilterDescriptor;
        if (filter != null)
        {
            switch (DropDownListValue)
            {
                case "Yes":
                    filter.Value = true;
                    filter.Operator = FilterOperator.IsEqualTo;
                    break;
                case "No":
                    filter.Value = false;
                    filter.Operator = FilterOperator.IsEqualTo;
                    break;
                case "No Info":
                    filter.Value = null;
                    filter.Operator = FilterOperator.IsNull;
                    break;
                case "All":
                    await context.ClearFilterAsync();
                    return;
            }

            // Apply the filter
            await context.FilterAsync();
        }
    }

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {

>         for (int i = 0; i < 30; i++)

Reviewer: Do not use zero as an ID, because this is the default value of the numeric types.
```suggestion
        for (int i = 1; i <= 30; i++)
```

        {
            GridData.Add(new Employee
                {
                    EmployeeId = i,
                    Name = $"Employee {i}",
                    IsOnLeave = i % 3 == 0
                });
        }
        GridData.Add(new Employee
            {
                EmployeeId = 31,
                Name = "Employee 31",
                IsOnLeave = null

>             });

Reviewer: Instead of adding more items one by one, you can enhance the `IsOnLeave` logic in the loop.

    }

    public class Employee
    {
        public int EmployeeId { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; } = string.Empty!;

>         public bool? IsOnLeave { get; set; }

Reviewer: This is not something that you must change, but just saying - `IsOnLeave` is not a good candidate for a nullable value. It's highly unlikely that a company doesn't know if an employee is on leave or not. A more suitable nullable boolean parameter can be something like `AgreesToTermsAndConditions` - `true` and `false` or people who already declared it, and `null` for those who haven't said yet.

---
title: Change the Boolean Filtering Options in a FilterRow Dropdown
description: Learn how to customize the default text in a Grid FilterRow dropdown list, including changing "is true" and "is false" to "Yes" and "No," modifying the FilterRow dropdown list display names, and filtering the boolean column values by null for a more user-friendly and tailored filtering experience.
type: how-to
page_title: How to Change the Boolean Filtering Options in a FilterRow Dropdown
slug: grid-kb-filterrow-bool-customization
ticketid: 1575619, 1603347, 1646267, 1654640
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

<table>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>Product</td>
            <td>Grid for Blazor</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## Description

This KB article answers the following questions:

> * How to change the default `is true` and `is false` text in the Grid the `FilterRow` dropdown?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* How to change the default `is true` and `is false` text in the Grid `FilterRow` dropdown?
```

* How to change the default display names in `FilterRow` dropdown?
* How to filter boolean `Grid` column values by `null`?

> * How to change the default values in `FilterRow` dropdown to `Yes` and `No`?

Reviewer 2: Do you have any considerations that make you avoid the article before `FilterRow`?
```suggestion
* How to change the default values in the `FilterRow` dropdown to `Yes` and `No`?
```

---
title: Change the Boolean Filtering Options in a FilterRow Dropdown
description: Learn how to customize the default text in a Grid FilterRow dropdown list, including changing "is true" and "is false" to "Yes" and "No," modifying the FilterRow dropdown list display names, and filtering the boolean column values by null for a more user-friendly and tailored filtering experience.
type: how-to
page_title: How to Change the Boolean Filtering Options in a FilterRow Dropdown
slug: grid-kb-filterrow-bool-customization
ticketid: 1575619, 1603347, 1646267, 1654640
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

<table>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>Product</td>
            <td>Grid for Blazor</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## Description

This KB article answers the following questions:

> * How to change default text `is true` and `is false` in Grid `FilterRow` dropdown?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* How to change the default `is true` and `is false` text in the Grid `FilterRow` dropdown?
```

> * How to change the default display names in `FilterRow` dropdown?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* How to change the default display names in the `FilterRow` dropdown?
```

> * How to filter a boolean `Grid` column values by `null`?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* How to filter boolean `Grid` column values by `null`?
```

> * How to change the default values in `FilterRow` dropdown to "**Yes**" and "**No**"?

Reviewer 2: Use the incline code style for the [values](https://docs.telerik.com/style-guide/element-formatting).
```suggestion
* How to change the default values in the `FilterRow` dropdown to `Yes` and `No`?
```

## Solution

> * Define a [Filter Row Template]({%slug grid-templates-filter%}#filter-row-template).

Reviewer 2: Is there no particular order in this list? Can you use an ordered list instead?

Author: There is no particular order here. The actions can be implemented in various orders. Currently, the order of the actions can be displayed in an ordered and unordered list. If the ordered list is the preferred one, I will change the list type.
